Overall quality: Strong (but not quite production-ready yet)
Confidence level: Medium-High that this improves automated win rate and closes the “discretion gap” — IF you fix a few implementation landmines and tighten two logic edges.

You’re aiming for “your 50–70% discretionary win rate, but autonomous.” This plan moves in the right direction because it removes lying confidence, adds quality filters, and preserves strong-trend exceptions (so you don’t over-sanitize the strategy into low-frequency boredom).

B) What Holds Up
These parts are sound and align with your stated goal:

ADX tiered scoring replaces unconditional +15
This is a real bug fix, not an “optimization.” It stops weak-trend garbage from masquerading as “strong trend.” That alone should reduce false positives and improve the signal distribution.

Conditional RSI extension handling (NOT hard-blocked)
This is exactly the right stance for trend continuation: extended RSI can be valid in strong trends, but it’s dangerous in weak/moderate regimes. The “block unless strong; else allow with penalty” is a clean compromise.

Close-in-range confirmation (0.7/0.3) replacing candle color
Candle color is a toddler test. Close-position quality is a grown-up filter. This should materially improve your “autonomous = discretionary” gap.

EMA50 touch + reclaim bonus (conditional)
This captures your “deep pullback defended” discretionary edge without turning the strategy into a different hypothesis.

TP authority alignment (preferStructure: false)
If your engine overrides explicit TP when preferStructure is true, this change prevents silent behavior drift. Deterministic behavior = debuggable behavior.

PHASE1 logging
This is how you stop arguing with opinions and start arguing with evidence.

C) What Needs Revision (Nitpicks that matter)
These are the spots where your plan, as written, can break builds or produce misleading results.

1) 🔴 Compile/Scope bug: closeRatio used in logger but defined inside blocks

In your plan, closeRatio is computed inside the long block and again inside the short block as a const. Then you log closeRatio later in a shared logging section.

That will not compile unless you define it in outer scope like:

let closeRatio = 0.5; (outer scope)

compute it after direction is known (single place)

Same risk for any variables that are block-scoped but referenced later (including reclaim flags).

2) 🔴 “RSI not hardcoded” clarification (you’re right to push back)

Your conditional RSI logic is not hardcoded in behavior, but your thresholds still are (70/30). That’s fine — thresholds have to exist — but if you want this genuinely configurable, you should parameterize them instead of baking them into logic.

Best practice: define constants at top of file or a params object in meta (even if you don’t have a formal params type yet). That gives you tuning control without code edits.

3) 🟠 Double-count / incentive mismatch risk: close-in-range + reclaim may inflate confidence too often

As written, a strong close can trigger +15 even if price never interacted meaningfully with the EMA zone (depending on how your entry trigger is structured). You probably want close-in-range to be evaluated only when the pullback criteria is actually true (i.e., after confirming the zone touch / pullback condition).

If the code structure already guarantees you’re inside a pullback-valid block when this runs, you’re fine. If not, tighten gating.

4) 🟠 Logging quality: don’t stringify numbers with toFixed()

Right now you’re logging adxSignal: adxSignal!.toFixed(1) etc. That turns numbers into strings and makes analysis annoying and error-prone.

Log raw numbers; format later.

5) 🟡 preferStructure: false vs structureLookback still present

Not harmful, just pointless. If preferStructure is false, structureLookback is dead weight. Keep it if your engine expects it, but it’s misleading config noise.

6) 🟡 RSI extension penalty placement

You’re applying RSI extension logic after if (!direction) return null; which is correct. But be careful: if later blocks add big positive bonuses (ADX tier, trend alignment, etc.), a flat -10 may become meaningless.

If you want it to remain meaningful, it should either:

scale slightly (e.g., -5/-10/-15 by ADX tier), or

cap max confidence contribution when RSI is extended (soft ceiling)

Not required now, but worth noting.

D) Superior Enhancements
Concrete improvements that make this tighter and more “production-grade.”

Required

Fix variable scope for closeRatio + ema50Reclaim
Define once, compute once, log once.

Parameterize RSI thresholds + penalty (so it’s not “hardcoded”)
Example parameters:

RSI_EXTENDED = 70/30

RSI_EXTENDED_PENALTY = 10

RSI_EXTENDED_ALLOW_ONLY_IF_H4_STRONG = true

Make reclaim bonus strictly “touch + reclaim” (you already chose the better version)
Keep it exactly as you wrote: touch EMA50 + close beyond EMA50.

Log numeric fields as numbers
Keep toFixed out of logging payloads.

Optional Improvement

Make RSI extension rule depend on ADX tier too (not only H4 strength)
Example: allow extended RSI only if H4 strong and intraday ADX ≥ 25, otherwise block.
This matches real market behavior: “strong trend” on H4 with weak intraday ADX is often chop/transition.

Exploratory

Add “multi-touch penalty” (first-pullback bias)
This is one of the biggest “trader’s eye” edges in trend pullbacks. But it needs careful implementation to avoid nuking good continuation.

E) Consensus Plan (Ready-to-Implement Version)
Here’s the cleaned, best-of-both plan that keeps your conditional RSI requirement and avoids build issues:

ADX tiered scoring (replace unconditional +15) — keep thresholds 18/25/35.

Replace candle color with close-in-range (0.7/0.3), computed once after direction is set.

EMA50 reclaim bonus only if touch + reclaim.

Conditional RSI extension handling (your preference):

If RSI extended and H4 trend not strong → block

If RSI extended and H4 trend strong → allow + -10 penalty

(Optional later: require intraday ADX ≥ 25 too)

preferStructure: false and align TP config with explicit RR logic.

PHASE1_SIGNAL logging, but:

define closeRatio + ema50Reclaim in outer scope

log numeric values as numbers

Meta update version/date/description.

Bottom line: Yes, these changes are logically aligned with improving automated win rate toward your discretionary results — mainly by eliminating low-quality entries that your eye filters out (weak trend, weak close quality, exhaustion RSI in non-strong trends). The only “no” is: as written, the plan has at least one likely TypeScript scope bug and a configurability gap. Fix those and you’re greenlit.